# drjudy
Final Project
During the semester, we took on the roles for ChadaTech while working on the SNHU Travel project. This project delved into many roles of a scrum agile team, and I will address all the aspects of the experience in the agile approach. 
The first role we will go over is the Scrum Master. This role is the most challenging as the Scrum Master establishes the groundwork for the team and creates an open communication line throughout the group. The Scrum Master is in charge of conducting daily meetings called standups. This helps align the team on what is happening that day and where they stand with projects. When playing this role, you have a key person who must communicate with the product owner.
The product owner plays a critical role in preparing user stories and getting the full scope of the project. The product owner had to communicate with stakeholders to ensure the project would meet their standards for their needs/customers, thus being able to create user stories. The team could determine the main priorities and goals with the user stories. 
The next role is tester, another critical role in the scrum agile team. The tester can be anyone on the team, and it does not have to be a designated role from the beginning, depending on the type of project. The tester's role is to provide information to the developer developing the project/software. The tester must know the user stories to enable completing a fully complete project. 
The next role is the development team, which is the bread and butter when piecing a project together. As a developer, you actively participate in spring planning, narrowing down user stories, and creating high-quality code. The developers brought good insight through the project; they wanted a solid foundation and communication so they didn't have to repeat steps later in their code. When the developer completes the task, the tester will review it to give the green light to move on to the next part of the project. A plus about working with the agile method in the role is that the developer will hear about if they can move promptly compared to other methods. 
The Scrum Agile appreciated helped with completing user stories. The scrum team was able to go over each user story to make sure they were clear on the goal. When the team conducted their sprint backlogs, they could select specific user stories based on priority to add to the backlog. The team worked daily standups, which helped us identify any barriers or lack of communication that needed to be addressed. Lastly, the spring reviews allowed the product owner and stakeholders to offer feedback and or refer user stories to make them capable. All of these features within a scrum agile approach helped ensure SNHU travel would be a success. 
Using an agile approach, we could conquer any barriers that tripped to interrupt our direction. For instance, when we wanted to change a piece of the project in mid-sprint, the team was able to by adjusting our backlog and changing the sprint plan. Agile is known to be flexible, which makes it an excellent method to use instead of others, such as the waterfall method. 
The team communicated best when everyone took on their role and stated their purpose and plan for the project. This ensured the team would feel comfortable with each other and know they were all in. Also, enabling everyone to have a say in standups allows the team to share their thoughts on questions, brings a group feeling to it, and every comment is needed. 
The tools and framework for our success were the Product and sprint backlog. This helped us determine where we stood and ensure we were promoting the most important work. We accomplished this during our scrum events when we conducted our daily standups, sprint reviews, and sprint planning. This ensured our team was structured and could see the whole picture. A principle that helped us stay on track was ensuring everyone was ultimately aligned with the goal. The goal was emphasized many times throughout the scrum events.
Throughout the project, I was impressed with the agile approach for the SNHU Travel project. If mistakes were to be made, there was always a chance to make it right or adjust. Another positive is how customer-centric it is and how they want them to be in the loop throughout the process. Cons is that there is a lot of communication, which might be challenging for co-workers if they are not verbal. Another con could be the learning curve if you are coming from another methodology. This was the best approach as it was straightforward to learn, and I enjoyed its customer-centric nature. It is all about being customer-centric since they are your consumers, making them happy. 
